# React lecture with Andy

Create an app: npx create-react-app app-name

# Files
public/index.html: Dont change anything but the title.
public/manifest.json: Controls your logo sizes for devices
public/robots.txt: Responsible for search engines

README.md: Delete that

src: Only keep app.css / app.js / index.css / index.js

app.js: remove import logo and everything between the div. 

# Components Folder
In the src folder, make a folder called components to hold your containers.
Each container file needs to start with a captial letter. 

Use JSX to use shortcuts

IF you're using react version under 18, must import react with this code at the top of your jsx file. 
`import React from 'react';`

# Import/ Export
The difference between `export` and `export default` is that the default is exported at a a higher level. Export default is exporting a function while the other export is just some keys

How you import them is different as well. 
```jsx
import Header, { someVal } from './Header';

export const someVal = 'hello';

const Header = () = {};

export default Header;
```

# Return
In react, we can only return null or jsx. Usually in () to return multi-lines.

```jsx
  return(
  <div>

    </div>
  )
```
Can only return 1 main parent element. Inside that parent, you can have unlimited amount of siblings

# Fragment
Act as parent element but dont show up in the browser element for styling purposes Need to import it

Instead of typing <Fragment>, you can use <> instead. 

# Props
Props is what we typically call our function parameter. The parameter returns an object.

In our App.js we declare what props.message is
```jsx
      <Header
        message="This is the homepage!"
      ></Header>
```
We use this in our Header.jsx file:
```jsx
const Header = (props) => {

  return (
    <>
      <h2>{props.message}</h2>
    </>
  );
};

```

# Closure
A variable that a function uses and stores memory.  In this case, `count` would be a closure. Javascript will keep it in memory because it is used in the function.
```jsx
let count = 0;

const increment = () => {
  count += 1;
}

increment(); // 1
increment(); // 2
increment(); // 3
increment(); // 4
increment(); // 5

```

# Hooks
* JS functions that allow us to interact with the running React program.  Ane xample would be useState 

* Must be imported into your jsx file: `import {useState} from 'react';`

Have to be used in the top level. So no condition statements or handlers.
```jsx
const Counter = () => {
  useState() // -> WORKS

  if(true) {
    useState(); // -> ERROR
  }

  const clickHandler = () => {
    count += 1;
    useState(); // -> ERROR
  }
}
```

# useState
 ```jsx
 // 1. Give our useState a starting value of 0. This is our closure
const arr = useState(0); 

// 2. Setting the 0 element of the array as our GETTER
const count = arr[0];

// 3. Setting the 0 element of the array as our SETTER
const setCount = arr[1];
 ```

 We can typically do all of that in one line with array destructering. 
 ```jsx
// We want to name the 0 and the 1 element of the array as follows. Now we have the Setter and the getter
const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
 ```
